So this is slightly different how I think
you would normally do forms, right?
Well, we're taking advantage of basically,
the way browsers always work
the forms to post data to the server,
and then coming back with
the same exact data rendered.
Now in the future,
there's gonna be something on top of
this to make it old Typesafe, and
make the amount of hoops I have to jump
through kind of more straightforward.
But the basic idea stays the same,
that you create a form,
that form gets posted using
a normal browser post,
the server gets to validate it and
decide whether things are okay or not, and
it essentially sends the same
form back to me to the update.
So, let's now implement the last bit.
So let's say there are no errors.
So where are we?
We're here onPost, and data shows up.
And suppose we pass through all the checks
in here and there are no errors.
So isRequired, returns false, right?
So, sorry, let's flip this over.
So const hasErrors is this one, right?
So now what happens if it has errors?
Well, if it has no errors.
Then what we need to do,
we need to save it to the database, right?
So this is save contact to DB.
So that requires that we,
[COUGH] what do we do here?
We say CONTACTS find.
Is it find returns the value?
The first element that, so
find predicate, contact id, okay?
So we have to make sure to
send back the contact id.
Well, the contact id, okay, it's used.
So the form we forgot to do that, when we
have a form, we have a special input here.
Type hidden.
Perfect, my gosh.
It's amazing.
Is it c.id?
I think it's c.id, yes.
So now we use the Yep,
that shouldn't use this too,
this is unnecessary, whatever that is.
So now we copy our contact to
the existing contact, right?
We overwrite it.
What is not liking it?
Why is this not liking it?
Because it could be undefined, I see.
Okay, more error checking
to be written over here.
So we copy it into database or
whatever the equivalent of
the database would be here.
And now we have to redirect.
So we say, throw response.
Oops, so not only do we get a request,
we get a response.
Response.redirect.
And let's redirect ourselves
to contacts slash contact.id.
Okay.
Also, these routes will become
Typesafe in the future.
So for now,
we just have to do this particular bit.
So, okay, I can't hit Enter,
if I hit Enter, it just complains.
So, let's call myself Mike Hevery.
Oops, that's, yeah, because,
okay, I know what just happened.
Let's do this.
Okay, so let's change my name to Mike.
And just like the id didn't get copied,
we forgot to copy the, where is it?
[SOUND]
>> The avatar.
>> The avatar, yes, I've hidden id.
So the same thing avatar.
>> It's also not displaying, so I suspect
it's not actually making it there.
>> I think I have to restart the database
because now we deleted everything.
Bring it there.
Okay, here we go, hit edit.
And it's all there.
So now we have a full
edit cycle in our system.
>> Love to see what's going
on with the network traffic.
>> Yes.
That's totally fair.
So let's look at the network traffic.
So [COUGH].
Again, no JavaScript, right?
Because we don't need anything here.
So, clicking on edit,
it gets us to a new route, I wanna do all,
so let's go back again, I'll just refresh.
So the route mhevery is full
HTML in this particular case,
there is no behavior in here,
so no JavaScript shows up.
Hitting edit sends you to edit.
That URL is missing a slash on the end.
That's why there was a redirect.
Sorry, let's fix that.
Again, Typesafe routes would solve this.
See this edit is missing a slash here,
that's why there was a redirect.
So we're here, hit edit, so
we go to the Edit URL here.
This is just sending normal HTML, right?
Again this page happens to
have no behavior in here,
we could put it behavior, right?
If we wanted to, if I go and
change this to Misko, and I hit Enter.
I post back to ourselves.
And if you look at the header,
the header has, sorry,
the payload had all the data,
including the name being Misko, right?
That caused the redirect, right?
This header came back with a redirect,
which was 302,
that redirected me back into the slash
mhevery without the edit suffix.
And there you go, updated.
It also updated the database, and
now this particular thing is updated.
So if I go back to the list,
you can see that my name got edited.
I lost my Karen on a top, let's see.
If I go back now to,
we need to back to hevery,
now it shows up as John over
here because I changed my name.
And again, we're very light on JavaScript
here, but if we needed to add behavior,
like this particular case has
a search behavior, right?
I can search and searching causes
JavaScript to be fetched as necessary.
And so the world is very fluid in between,
like what's on a server?
What's on the client?
What are the pages are, et cetera?
It's very kind of easy to work with.